---
layout: post
title:  T -30
author: Chris
tags: presidential-election-2020
---

# T -30 days: the President’s condition is unclear    

This week, [the President of the United States was diagnosed with Covid-19 and flown to Walter Reed Medical Center for treatment due to concerning sysmptoms][1].

There have been mixed reports of the severity of his symptoms. [An unusual press conference with his physicians did little to clarify the situation, and instead of clearly reporting facts tried to peddle happy talk][2].  As [Anne Applebaum notes][3], nearly 4 years of lies and disinformation coming from the White House and the President himself has left the public confused about the President’s condition.  

The erosion of truth, facts, and trustworthiness are all peaking prior to an election whose outcome depends so strongly on the clarity of the results, and the trust that the American public can have in those results when the President will almost certainly be actively trying to cast doubt on them in the event that he loses.  

It is remarkable how much of our democratic political system depends on trust and faith, which in turn depend on facts and truth. I trust that when I arrive at my polling place and cast my ballot that it will be counted. I trust that a similar sacrament will occur with every other person at my polling location, at every other polling location in my city, state, and country, despite different executives, different voting rules and mechanisms, and different political affiliation. On election night, I have trust the tabulations and the results reported across the country. It is a somewhat miraculous bit of logistics that a nation our size can even execute such an operation.  

Americans believe in their voting and democratic system. But in an era where bullshit myths (otherwise known as “conspiracy theories”) are being amplified by “social media” platforms, our collective connection with the truth, with facts, and therefore the political articles of faith that rest at the core of our democratic experiment are in jeopardy. It certainly doesn’t help when our current President actively tries to sow doubt and further undermine that faith in an election where it matters most.



The [Coronavirus killed 760 Americans on October 3rd, 2020; and over 208,000 overall.][4]

[1]:	https://apnews.com/article/virus-outbreak-donald-trump-elections-melania-trump-michael-pence-f6ba3a16ab9b74b161a3a7211248e97e
[2]:	https://apnews.com/article/virus-outbreak-donald-trump-health-mark-meadows-archive-efa1bd034fc08e390930bde4bad95de9
[3]:	https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2020/10/trump-super-spreader-disinformation/616604/?utm_source=feed
[4]:	https://www.washingtonpost.com/graphics/2020/national/coronavirus-us-cases-deaths/?itid=sf_coronavirus