---
layout: post
title:  T-35
author: Chris
tags: presidential-election-2020
---

# T-35: The First Presidential “Debate”    

Like many Americans, I watched the first “debate” between the two candidates for the American Presidency unfold like a slow-motion tragedy - I refuse to call that a “Presidential debate.” I could feel the weight of what it signified accumulate with each passing insult, interruption, and falsehood. It was a dark evening for many people who for so many years have seen the United States as that bright shining city on a hill; as that standard-bearer for Democratic ideals.  

I happened to be reading Wendell Berry recently, and perhaps ominously recalled the following quote from his essay, _The Loss of the Future_, from [“The Long-Legged House”][1]:
> “We are a remnant people in a remnant country. We have used up the possibilities inherent in the youth of our nation: the new start in a new place with new vision and new hope. We have gone far toward using up our topsoils and our forests and many of our other natural resources. We have come, or are coming fast, to the end what what we were given. The good possibilities that may lie ahead are only those that we will make ourselves, by a wiser and more generous and more exacting use of what we have left.”
> -Wendell Berry

This passage sounded like a warning bell, while reminding me to be hopeful. 

Clearly our democracy is straining under Trump’s authoritarian ambitions and the misinformation being mainlined into the voting public through ‘social media platforms’ - a euphemism for reckless deployment of technology that is having such vast effects that we will one day look back on it as just as perilous to the governance of free and democratic people as the threats of Communism and totalitarian regimes themselves.

Berry calls us to be wiser, more generous, and more exacting in how we use the remaining democratic resources that we have access. If nothing else, this means our vote. Our vote should shine as clearly and resolutely as ever to dispel the anti-democratic darkness growing in our republic. Hopefully the results will be so clear that even intentional attempts at the subversion of the will of the American people will fail. Hopefully. But we can’t know, so we must act.

_Note: with 35 days before the U.S. Presidential election, I feel the need to capture what I am thinking and feeling as our nation approaches such a momentous election. In my own mind, I am calling this series T-minus, and it will be a daily reflection on the time leading up to, and potential after the 2020 U.S. Presidential election._

[1]:	https://www.amazon.com/Long-Legged-House-Wendell-Berry/dp/1593760132